doc/Scripts.md, before:

# Scripts

There are a number of useful scripts included with the distribution.
Some of these scripts are only useful during build and development, but
other scripts are intended for end users to be able to use.  These scripts
may be installed with n2n as part of your operating system package.

Short descriptions of these scripts are below.

## `scripts/hack_fakeautoconf`

This shell script is used during development to help build on Windows
systems.  An example of how to use it is shown in
the [Building document](Building.md)

## `tools/test_harness`

This shell script is used to run automated tests during development.

## `scripts/n2nctl`

This python script provides an easy command line interface to the running
edge.  It uses UDP communications to talk to the Management API.

Example:
- `scripts/n2nctl --help`
- `scripts/n2nctl help`

## `scripts/n2nhttpd`

This python script is a simple http gateway to the running edge.  It provides
a proxy for REST-like HTTP requests to talk to the Management API.

By default it runs on port 8080.

It also provides a simple HTML page showing some edge information, which when
run with default settings can be seen at http://localhost:8080/ (Also
a http://localhost:8080/supernode.html page for the supernode)

Example:
- `scripts/n2nhttpd --help`
- `scripts/n2nhttpd 8087`

Commit message:

Make it clear that the n2nctl script works for both edge and supernode

doc/Scripts.md, after:

# Scripts

There are a number of useful scripts included with the distribution.
Some of these scripts are only useful during build and development, but
other scripts are intended for end users to be able to use.  These scripts
may be installed with n2n as part of your operating system package.

Short descriptions of these scripts are below.

## `scripts/hack_fakeautoconf`

This shell script is used during development to help build on Windows
systems.  An example of how to use it is shown in
the [Building document](Building.md)

## `tools/test_harness`

This shell script is used to run automated tests during development.

## `scripts/n2nctl`

This python script provides an easy command line interface to the running
n2n processes.  It uses UDP communications to talk to the Management API.
By specifying the right UDP port, it can talk to both the edge and the
supernode daemons.

Example:
- `scripts/n2nctl --help`
- `scripts/n2nctl help`

## `scripts/n2nhttpd`

This python script is a simple http gateway to the running edge.  It provides
a proxy for REST-like HTTP requests to talk to the Management API.

By default it runs on port 8080.

It also provides a simple HTML page showing some edge information, which when
run with default settings can be seen at http://localhost:8080/ (Also
a http://localhost:8080/supernode.html page for the supernode)

Example:
- `scripts/n2nhttpd --help`
- `scripts/n2nhttpd 8087`
